#vim tmux navigator (install this)
using -n with a key binding makes it available without the prefix key.

set -g status-right "<some pattern, google list of status patterns available>"
#p is pane number, there is a way to put in any shell command in here
a shell comand for battery with color coding can be created and that can be shown in the status

prefix + z zooms in a pane and makes it fullscreen temporarily. same key binding undones it. 

window numbering can be done starting from one
there is one key binding to go to previous window, to switch between two windows
using window numbers can also be used to jump straight to nth window. 

prefix b can be used to push the current pane into a new window and keep the cursor or context to present window with rest of the panes reorganized

panes are not starting from current path, is something to be explored

tmux choose-tree allows to choose from multiple tmux opened sessions. this can be used from inside the tmux session itself.
Press space on any of the session in choose tree to see list of windows that you can target directly (some key can be bound to this task also, Not yet done)

prefix L can be used to move between previous sessions. just like there is a command for windows. 

tmux, system clipboard and vim clipboard need to be optimized. 
also moving can be like vim in copy mode

    # Use vim keybindings in copy mode
        setw -g mode-keys vi

    # Setup 'v' to begin selection as in Vim
        bind-key -t vi-copy v begin-selection
        bind-key -t vi-copy y copy-pipe "reattach-to-user-namespace pbcopy"

    # Update default binding of `Enter` to also use copy-pipe
        unbind -t vi-copy Enter
        bind-key -t vi-copy Enter copy-pipe "reattach-to-user-namespace pbcopy"

    Note - OS X users will need to install reattach-to-user-namespace in order to allow tmux to interact with the system clipboard.
    With the above configuration set for your tmux session, you can interact with copy mode using the following steps:
    <prefix> [ to start "copy-mode"
    Move to the text you want to copy using Vim-like key-bindings, i.e., k to move up a line, / to search, etc.
    v to start selection
    Move to end of text with Vim key-bindings, e.g. e for end of word. The selection will be highlighted
    y to copy the highlighted/selected text
    The selected text will now be in your system clipboard.




